Add missing using instrumentation libraries pages: Python (#4369)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/languages/python/libraries.md

---
title: Using instrumentation libraries
linkTitle: Libraries
weight: 40
cSpell:ignore: HTTPX httpx instrumentor uninstrument
---

{{% docs/languages/libraries-intro "Python" %}}

## Use instrumentation libraries

If a library isn't included with OpenTelemetry, you can use
[instrumentation libraries](/docs/specs/otel/glossary/#instrumentation-library)
to generate telemetry data for a library or framework.

For example,

> [the instrumentation library for ASP.NET Core](https://www.nuget.org/packages/OpenTelemetry.Instrumentation.AspNetCore)

Reviewer: This should probably reference something in python, maybe `httpx` as used later?

Author: Well spotted, fixing!

> [the instrumentation library for HTTPX](<[https://www.nuget.org/packages/OpenTelemetry.Instrumentation.AspNetCore](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-python-contrib/tree/main/instrumentation/opentelemetry-instrumentation-httpx)>)

Reviewer: We can get rid of the nuget link :)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[the instrumentation library for HTTPX](https://pypi.org/project/opentelemetry-instrumentation-httpx/)
```

Also point to pypi packages, this is where Python developers will look for it

automatically creates [spans](/docs/concepts/signals/traces/#spans) based on
HTTP requests.

## Setup

You can install each instrumentation library separately using pip. For example:

```sh
pip install opentelemetry-instrumentation-{integration}
```

In the previous example, `{integration}` is the name of the instrumentation. For
a complete list of instrumentations and their names, browse the
[instrumentation](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-python-contrib/tree/main/instrumentation)

> directory of the `opentelemetry-python-contrib` repository on GitHub.

Reviewer 2: that seems redundant as we have a chapter below that is called "available instrumentation libraries"

To install a development version, clone or fork the
`opentelemetry-python-contrib` repository and run the following command to do an
editable installation:

```sh
pip install -e ./instrumentation/opentelemetry-instrumentation-{integration}
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

After installation, you will need to initialize the instrumentation library.
Each library typically has its own way to initialize.

```

## Example with HTTPX instrumentation

Here's how you can instrument HTTP requests made using the `httpx` library.

First, install the instrumentation library using pip:

```sh
pip install opentelemetry-instrumentation-httpx
```

Next, use the instrumentor to automatically trace requests from all clients:

```python
import httpx
from opentelemetry.instrumentation.httpx import HTTPXClientInstrumentor

url = "https://some.url/get"
HTTPXClientInstrumentor().instrument()

with httpx.Client() as client:
     response = client.get(url)

async with httpx.AsyncClient() as client:
     response = await client.get(url)
```

> If needed, you can uninstrument specific clients or all clients. For examples:

Reviewer 3: I'm a little wary about this here because folks might not read the "If needed" part and just copy-paste `uninstrument` calls.

Maybe it's worth putting in an explicit section marked as optional? Because in practice, you don't need to actually uninstrument unless you're doing something very specific (like testing your own instrumentation library).

Author: Chose to create a subsection for this.

```python
import httpx
from opentelemetry.instrumentation.httpx import HTTPXClientInstrumentor

HTTPXClientInstrumentor().instrument()
client = httpx.Client()

# Uninstrument a specific client
HTTPXClientInstrumentor.uninstrument_client(client)

# Uninstrument all clients
HTTPXClientInstrumentor().uninstrument()
```

## Available instrumentation libraries

A full list of instrumentation libraries produced by OpenTelemetry is available

> from the [opentelemetry-python-contrib][] repository.

Reviewer: I guess this should point to https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-python-contrib/tree/main/instrumentation, that is the directory holding all the instrumentations

Author: +1 Fixing

Reviewer 4: I recommend pointing to [here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-python-contrib/tree/main/instrumentation#readme) as it shows supported instrumented library versions, sem conv stability, metrics support, etc

Author: Fixed!

---
title: Using instrumentation libraries
linkTitle: Libraries
weight: 40
cSpell:ignore: HTTPX httpx instrumentor uninstrument
---

{{% docs/languages/libraries-intro "Python" %}}

## Use instrumentation libraries

> If a library isn't included with OpenTelemetry, you can use

Reviewer: "If a library isn't included with OpenTelemetry" is a bit ambiguous to me, what about "If a library does not ship with native OpenTelemetry support"?

Author: Like it! Added.

[instrumentation libraries](/docs/specs/otel/glossary/#instrumentation-library)
to generate telemetry data for a library or framework.

For example,
[the instrumentation library for HTTPX](https://pypi.org/project/opentelemetry-instrumentation-httpx/)
automatically creates [spans](/docs/concepts/signals/traces/#spans) based on
HTTP requests.

## Setup

You can install each instrumentation library separately using pip. For example:

```sh
pip install opentelemetry-instrumentation-{integration}
```

> In the previous example, `{integration}` is the name of the instrumentation.

Reviewer 4: I believe we use the term [instrumented library](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/glossary.md#instrumented-library) instead of `integration`.

Author: Fixed!
